Contents of the "msdos" sub-archive for UnZip 5.1 and later:

  Contents       this file
  README         notes about quirks in MS-DOS executables and compilers
  msdos.c        OS-dependent UnZip routines for MS-DOS
  makefile.bc    makefile for Borland C++ and Turbo C++
  makefile.gcc   makefile for djgpp 1.11 and GNU make
  makefile.msc   makefile for Microsoft C and make or nmake
  makefile.qc    makefile for Microsoft Quick C and nmake
  makefile.tc    makefile for Turbo C and make
  Borland.fix    patches to fix Borland executables for grokking Unix EOLs

Notes:

(1) As of UnZip 5.1, Borland project files are no longer included.  They
    were not as flexible as the makefiles, and the binary ones caused prob-
    lems for both the comp.sources.misc moderator and the UnZip maintainer.
    By way of compensation, what used to be called simply "makefile" has
    been split into makefile.msc and makefile.tc (the latter for old Turbo C
    compilers).

(2) The Unix makefile has an msc_dos target which can be used for MSC 6.0 or
    later, but such use is discouraged and the target may disappear in the
    future--use makefile.msc instead.

(3) For djgpp and GNU make, makefile.gcc is provided.  It should be possible
    to use the gcc_dos target in the main Unix makefile (unix/Makefile), but
    GNU make seems incapable of understanding the implicit .c$(OBJ) rule,
    even with .SUFFIXES included.  Bug or oversight, for now use this kludge.

(4) For DOS emx+gcc use the gccdos target in the OS/2 makefile.os2.  This
    target has only been tested in cross-compilation from OS/2 to MS-DOS,
    but it should work under plain MS-DOS with a proper make utility.  The
    resulting executables require emx.exe to run (akin to go32.exe).

(5) The djgpp/emx version of the volume-label code has not been tested as
    widely as the other versions; the author is very careful, however, so
    problems are unlikely.

(6) The binary patches in Borland.fix are NOT required; they may be useful
    if you regularly deal with Unix sources, but casual users should probably
    make use of an external utility like Rahul Dhesi's FLIP to convert between
    Unix and DOS/OS2 end-of-line characters.  If you know how to patch binary
    executables, you should be able to figure out how to use these patches.
    Presumably they don't work for more recent versions of the executables
    anyway; they'll probably be removed in the next version.
