Notes about MS-DOS executables and compilers:

 - Borland start-up code is reported to switch the screen mode auto-
   matically if it's not 80 columns (or possibly 40) and either 25, 43 
   or 50 lines.  In particular, extended modes such as 100x40 are not
   retained.

 - Borland start-up code also uses interrupt 1Ah, causing incorrect
   behavior (including lock-ups) on some Japanese MS-DOS machines such
   as the Fujitsu FMR series, which lack this interrupt.

 - Older Borland compilers do not understand source files with Unix
   line-endings (LF rather than CR/LF).  Use "flip" or a similar utility
   to convert the line endings before compiling, or take a look at the
   Borland.fix file in the UnZip source distribution.

 - Microsoft C 5.1 large-model code is more than an order of magnitude
   slower than the identical code compiled with MSC 6 or 7 (a factor of
   15 in our tests, actually).  This may be due to a lousy optimizer or
   lousy libraries; regardless, since UnZip does not really fit into
   the small model anymore, we recommend upgrading to a later version
   of the compiler.

For these reasons, Info-ZIP's distributed versions of the 16-bit MS-DOS 
executables are compiled with MSC 6 or 7.

Info-ZIP's distributed 32-bit MS-DOS executables are compiled with djgpp
1.11.m2.  These are stand-alone programs; the "go32" DOS extender is in-
cluded inside the executables.  They generally run up to twice as fast
as the 16-bit versions, but they only work on 386's and above.  In some
cases they're actually slower.  If this is the case for you, first try
running under plain DOS, after removing any memory manager in your 
config.sys and rebooting, to check if the slowdown is due to your memory 
manager.  The problem may also be due to the time spent by the djgpp 
runtime creating and deleting a swap file.  If you use SMARTDRV or another
disk cache, make sure that writes are also cached.

If you already have djgpp 1.11 or later, you can remove go32.exe from
unzip386.exe to get a smaller executable:

	exe2coff unzip386.exe
	coff2exe unzip386
	del unzip386

With unzip386.exe, you may have to set the TZ environment variable to
get correct timestamps on the extracted files.  Adding the line

	set TZ=MET0

to autoexec.bat works for our French contingent; a west-coast US user
might need "set TZ=PST8PDT" or "set TZ=PST0" instead.  The 16-bit version
always uses local time.

For other problems related to DJGPP, read the documentation provided
in oak.oakland.edu:/pub/msdos/djgpp/djdev111.zip.  If a problem occurs
with unzip386.exe, check first if it also occurs with unzip.exe before
reporting it.
